---
title: Choice
date: 2018-11-12 12:00:00
---

I am Majin, a normal person living at the bottom of the society with my distant cousin, XiaoXin. Like thousands of Chinese, I work in a small company with little salary. Burden of life forced me to borrow money from others. However, no matter how hard the life had been through, there are two things I would never forget, one is buying lotteries, another is thinking about Shanshan. Shanshan, who is my colleague, is like an angel from the heaven, and I always wish that there is one day that I can marry her. But my peaceful life suddenly came to change by a teambuilding activity of our company. In that journey, I understood the meaning of survival, I felt the strength of love and hope, I made the most important choice ever in life and, I am together with Shanshan.
As a celebration of our company’s great performance, the boss arranges a teambuilding activity. We were going to a small island far from the land by a boat. I felt a bit bored until I open my phone. Guess what I have found? I won the lottery which is sixty million RMB in total!
I haven't had time to become crazy before the tremendous tidal wave occurred……
I found myself woke up in a beach with all the other colleagues. Without any phone signal, we lost the connection with the outsides, and our only transport had been badly broken. All of us thought about the news people recently talk about that a huge meteorite which can destroy the Erath was flying towards us. We all guessed that the tidal wave was caused by it, and maybe the world had been destroyed. It came true when we saw a dead polar bear floating on the sea surface. As we thought we are the only survivors of the Erath, a huge fight for food happened among us. The human’s greed exposed completely. However, I didn’t believe the world was destroyed deeply in my mind, and I was in the hope of returning to the land and get my money back. 
Meanwhile, our situation went worse. At the beginning, we selected Xiaowang, an ex-serviceman, to be our leader as he has many experiences of living outside and he is very strong. But he soon became violent and lazy, and punished the people who didn’t work as much as he required. Our boss can’t bear the heavy work, so he used his financial mind established a new group with some of people to against Xiaowang. The newly built group was the same as Xiaowang’s. The boss used some poker cards to be the official money of the group, and set a trade system. As he controls the amount of poker cards, he soon became the leader as the same as Xiaowang.
Both leaders are satisfied with their life here and neither of them agreed to unite us to find ways to go home, so I was hated by them. Can’t stand their bully, I and Xiaoxin quit their groups. We didn’t have anything to eat, and our life became more and more difficult. We didn’t have the ability to come back by ourselves, and it soon came to the deadline of my lottery. During that, I was engaged in disappointment and I was wondering why the god tease me times over times. Just then, a huge amount of fish dropped out from the sky. And what we could thought was becoming the leader! 
Soon we did it, we gave them hope and made a fake world for them, and the relationship between Shanshan and me became better. However, the things changed when Xiaoxin and me found a big ship traveling near our island. The world is still existing! 
Xiaoxin and I had an argue since I was hesitated whether to continue or not. Xiaoxin wanted to throw away the rest of people by leaving just two of us and take up other people’s wealth in the true world. But I can’t make up my mind. Then, Shanshan expressed to me that she loves me.
Everybody was exciting, they hang me up and down happily while I was suffering. I do not deserve Shanshan’s love, I have cheated her, cheated everybody. God, how can you treat me like this? 
Finally, I gave up. I made the most important choice I have ever made. I told the truth, and I know I’m going to lose Shanshan forever. To my astonishment, everybody except Shanshan thought I am mad and didn’t believe me as Xiaoxin told them at first. Shanshan felt something wrong, and she ran away sadly.
But I didn’t give up, I burned all the things to send signal to the big ship, and the other people wanted to kill me until we got help.
Now, Shanshan is married with me, and I will never forget the things I got froma the journey, don’t lose hope and united when we meet problems 
